okay we're going straight in on this
video i'm going to be talking about and
explaining
how to start weight training in the gym
as a beginner
this is probably one of the most
frequently asked questions i get in the
comments like where to start like i
really want to get into the gym
where and after you start like how does
it all work what on earth is a rep
or a set what is all this terminology
that you use today i just thought i
would like break it down
quite simply i don't in this video to be
like super long and overwhelming because
don't get me wrong there is quite a bit
to it but my
main theme is just keeping everything
simple because it doesn't need to be
complicated hard anything like that or
overwhelming
i remember when i first started out in
the gym and stuff i was so confused by
everything i found the gym so
so daunting and just walked in there i
felt like the whole gym floor were just
staring at me when they probably weren't
it was mostly in my head because i was
lacking so much confidence
didn't have a clue what i was doing some
of the machines really scared me i
remember going on the leg press
maybe the second time i stepped foot in
the gym i honestly thought i was going
to die this was a good few years ago now
um we've come a long way since obviously
yeah i just wanted to like break
everything down a bit in this video you
know help a few of you
out if i can do so you probably decided
on
strength training which is just a form
of resistance training this can be done
literally through like bands uh body
weight
or like through weights weights
obviously is like the
kind of like superior stimuli because
you can increase your weight and
progressively overload like over a
period of time ultimately like
resistance training
just tears down your muscles so that it
can rebuild itself stronger than it was
before so that's how it works for this
vid
i have written down a few notes if you
see me glancing over
this kind of way and i just wanted this
to be you know like really to the point
no dilly to the dally in this one
if also if you could hit this video with
a like i would appreciate it it really
helps and supports my channel and is
very
much appreciated and we'll just delve
straight in
and so starting with the number one
first thing i would say is to obviously
set yourself some short-term and
long-term goals
and the first thing as soon as i say
that out loud that comes to my mind
is make sure they're not completely
aesthetic goals like trust me on this
one when i first started out like with
fitness
i basically based my whole entire
fitness goal of just going on aesthetics
like i'd set myself
i think my first goal was just to try
and grow a bum and
and grow my glutes so i did that for a
few weeks and then next minute i was
like i'm not
like i don't want to put on size
anywhere
else other than my glutes which is very
difficult to do and i wanted to get try
and get abs then so i was like each week
i was kind of going between different
goals and aiming for different things
like contrasting each other
which is just it's like it was
exhausting to be honest because i
couldn't find like a happy place
so i would really advise to obviously
you can have aesthetics goals but i
would say
to mainly focus on performance goals
because that's when i've noticed
the most results on a whole that is the
secret like focus on performance
rather than just purely aesthetics and
it can be a real downhill
spiral and affect you negatively so yeah
i won't grab an attention on that one
and what i mean by performance goals can
be anything like anything that's
personal to you so it could be
to be able to do some like unassisted
push-ups
to improve your balance to do a pull-up
just
anything like that set yourself a goal
and i think that's the best way
to have something to work towards and
it's so rewarding as well
and feeling yourself getting stronger
each week or like after each
like your first few sessions is so
empowering
so the next thing i would say is to
absolutely spend some time
working on your technique and form of
like each movement that you plan on
performing in the gym
if it's easier for you or if you're
lacking a bit of like confidence
like in the actual gym i would just say
do this like start by doing this
at home in front of a mirror and just
going onto youtube
like watching some tutorials on how to
perform like individual
movements and kind of go from there in
there's so much out there and i'm so
grateful like as i'm sure we all are to
be in a generation where we can just get
everything out i think
it's like it's brilliant or if you're in
a position to get like a pt in your gym
just for your first few sessions just to
talk through like each movement explain
the machines
that's also a good idea but it's not
completely necessary there is
some really good information out there
online and stuff and of course like what
comes with
learning each movement is you're gonna
feel so much more confident like when
you walk into the gym you're not gonna
feel like
people are staring at you because you
don't really know what you're doing or
you feel like are they looking at me
because i'm doing it wrong
they're most likely not and it is 95 of
the time in your head
but you're going to save yourself so
much time in the long run
from performing you're not going to get
as good results for example if you are
performing a movement with incorrect
form and you can also
you know cause yourself an injury which
we do not want but just remember like we
all start
somewhere whoever you're looking at in
the gym thinking wow like
they look like they really know what
they're doing that person started
somewhere
you know that's just how it goes then
the next thing is it doesn't have to be
100 perfect just like anything i guess
you know we all start somewhere we're
all a beginner at some point
and that's like how life goes isn't it
trying something new so i think that's
really important
to remember that person that you admire
in the gym they started somewhere
the girl next to you that's squatting
blooming
like two houses on her back you know she
started somewhere
don't sort of try keep up with safe you
go to the gym with like a friend or
something try keep and they've been
lifting longer than you or whatever
don't try and like
keep up with them as such if you're not
comfortable
doing the same weights or you don't
throw yourself under the book we all
have completely individual
journeys different bodies all of that so
don't rush yourself
ultimately as well the most important
thing is just being consistent that is
what
i think a lot of people struggle with
just stick to
you know your goals like keep your goal
in mind be consistent keep showing up
have a plan
and just keep it moving you know so on
that last point which brings me on to
the next one which is
going to the gym with a plan i really
wish i could go back
and tell my like younger self this
because honestly i would walk around the
gym aimlessly
i'd get so worked up like say if someone
was on a machine that i was going to use
and i'd be like uh
i don't know what to do next so save
yourself and it is the biggest
like insecurity part lifted from the gym
so
you'll just feel yourself walking in
there a lot more confident knowing what
you're doing
you're gonna have much more effective
sessions than you would do like without
a plan
and say if like a certain machine or
whatever is occupied
you can just move on to your next and go
back to that one that is an absolute
must i would say to like maybe plan out
have your workouts planned for a week or
if you're finding a bit too much
just plan out like for the following day
or do it in the morning before you go
just you know find what works for you
so the next one is deciding what
approach to take so this is going to be
like completely personal
dependent on your goals say if you
want to cultivate more strength or if
you want to get
leaner you know it's completely
individual choices
but don't for one minute think heavy
weights
make you big and bulky it's all about
like your volume
your rep range all of that so just as an
example say if you are wanting to
increase
your strength it's going to be heavier
weights for fewer reps so like
say three to six reps if you are going
with much heavier weights
if you're wanting to get leaner say it's
going to be
moderate weight with a higher rep range
so it's
like 10 between 10 and 15 reps just as
an example
never really any more than like 15 reps
that should be
crazy volume and you don't want to
damage your joints so the next thing is
workout split this obviously is quite
dependent on how much like you've done
and how much of a beginning you are if
you're really unfit and all of that
but generally say if you've dabbled in a
few at home workouts here and there or
you've been to the gym a few times but
never gone in
with like you know full-blown structure
if you like
i would probably say to start with two
upper body sessions and two
lower body sessions so if you're
training four days a week
and just ease yourself into that
definitely don't neglect upper body
like i did that when i first started out
as you want to be
like you want to have a balanced
physique and be in proportion
and it's gonna also help you a lot with
your lower body lifts
so yeah so that is definitely something
to consider
just to add to that as well you really
don't need to over complicate it like
the main thing is just keeping it simple
when you're first starting out like you
don't need to isolate
certain specific muscle groups you just
want to get yourself like familiar with
the staple compound movements that can
get you the most effective and best
results
in terms of workout frequency this is
completely like
personal to your schedule there's no
right or wrong
at all in terms of like time to train
just find what works for you i
personally like training in the morning
but
you know you might be full of life or
you've got more time on an evening just
suit that to yourself but i would say
like i mentioned a second ago
probably to start with like between
three and four workouts i
five might be a bit much but just see
how you go i'd say start gradually
and build it up but just keep it
consistent
there are literally so many funky ass
workouts out there but
foundational compound lifts are always
like the real winner and that's what you
want to focus on
mastering of course like accessory work
is real but it goes hand in hand but
yeah
first things first always the compound
lifts so compound movements are
like the heart of any workout program
they
focus on functional fitness and go
through a wide range of motion
so yeah definite focus all right the
last few points i'm not going to keep
going on and on
um is just tempo this is something
that's really important so you really
want to focus on that
mind to muscle connection like whatever
you are working
you want to focus in like think about it
in your brain make sure you can feel the
contraction
and when it comes to like speed keep
things like slow
controlled and steady like don't be like
like fleeing stuff about that's gonna
help so much
with your form and stuff and you're
gonna find it a lot easier and of course
like performing that in a mirror
doing it from home you can really like
master that so
yeah that is pretty much everything i
wanted to cover
in this video do let me know if there's
anything else you would like
to know whatever what other videos would
be helpful for you
pop them in the comments down below and
i would be more than happy to do that
and if you haven't already i would love
you to stick around by subscribing
to my channel and i will see you guys in
the next video
you